All right.
In this lesson, we'll take a look at how we can combine the V bind directive with the class attribute
in HTML.
So as a reminder, the V bind directive allows us to connect some slice of our component data to an
h HTML attribute so that as the data changes, the corresponding attribute will update its value as
well.
Right.
And we talked about the two syntactical options for V bind earlier.
We have V bind colon as well as just the colon by itself.
And remember, this is applicable to any single HTML attribute.
So for example, if we want to dynamically connect some kind of data to this class attribute, we can
do so using V bind.
So let's write that syntax right here.
V bind.
Followed by a colon.
And we need we need to put the colon to specify that we want to connect to the class attribute because
there's many different attributes that we can apply to a button.
In this case, we're connecting to class, and the way it's going to work here is going to be a little
bit different.
Instead of writing Primary, what I'm going to provide is a plain JavaScript object.
All right, so like so and in here, what we can do is provide key value pairs where the key can represent
an available sixth class such as primary, which we have defined in styles down below.
And the value will be a boolean, either true or false, that reflects whether that class should be
applied or should not be applied.
All right.
It's a lot to take in.
So let me give you an example.
We have one Caesar's class that's available, which is primary on line 19.
So our CSS classes are going to be our keys.
So I'm going to write primary.
Our values are going to be booleans.
A true means apply this class.
A false means do not apply this class.
So right now I'm going to hard code a value of true.
And what that is going to do is apply the styles from the primary class to this button.
So I'm going to save this file and I'm going to go back to my browser and we're going to see the same
button that we're used to seeing the blue button right here.
However, if I hardcoded a different boolean value, which is false because we have a false, we will
not apply the primary scissors class.
So these styles will not be applied to the button.
However, we're still going to have these styles right here because they apply to the general button
HTML element.
All right, so I'm going to save this file and it's going to look a little bit different in the browser.
Here we have our button with the padding that we specified and the font specified, etc..
But as you can see, we lost all of the blue background and the text color that we got from our primary
styles.
All right.
So I'm going to go back to my editor and just one more thing to show you in this lesson, which is,
of course, the easy lynch violence violation that we see here, is that we can use the shortcut for
the V bind directive, which is just the colon syntax.
So I'm going to remove this and just leave this as colon class.
And this creates the exact same thing.
So you might be curious as to why we would ever use this.
Well, this is a very basic introduction to show you the syntax for how it works.
Obviously, there is no dynamic data anywhere to be found here.
We are simply hard coding the value of true and false right here in line.
However, there is nothing preventing us from providing this boolean value from something like a data
property on our view component.
And of course, as you might guess, if that data property switches its boolean value, then the value
that we attach to the primary access class will also change, which will change whether or not Vue applies
those primary class styles to the button.
So the key takeaway here is now we can apply dynamic access.
We can apply a class conditionally based on some piece of data that we have in our component.
We can sometimes enable styles and alternatively, we can add another style based from a different CSS
class simply by flipping booleans.
And there's nothing stopping us from having multiple CAC classes in here.
So I can have an object with three properties and we can conditionally choose which ones to add at any
given moment based on some kind of business logic in our component.
So we're going to get to that logic in just a few lessons.
But this is just to introduce the dynamic syntax that we can use to bind to the class attribute on any
HTML element.
Again, this is V bind, which means we are connecting JavaScript or view logic to an existing HTML
attribute, which means Vue is going to monitor anything that we provide here for when it's changing.
Again, in this scenario, this will never change because this is a static object that always will have
a primary property, always set to false.
But later on we'll see how we can dynamically populate the values in here so that when the data changes,
the V bind directive tells Vue to observe those changes and react to them by re rendering the button
and its appropriate styles.
So I hope that explanation makes sense as to explaining why we would ever use a style like this and
or an approach like this.
And we're going to see more on how to use this in upcoming lessons.
So I will see you there.